Non-FTL version:

Faster than light travel was deemed impossible, even going a fraction of it needs propulsion beyond the capabilities
of any civilisation. Humans decided on a more, long-term solution to exploring the stars, they would send "seeds" which
would be ships that were entirely computer controlled, and would spend thousands of years traversing the galaxy until
they arrived at a planet that supported life.

A few planets were discovered through deep space telescopes and years of observation. These planets had a small chance
each of supporting life, and a seed ship was sent to each of these. Not all planets ended up supporting life, not all 
seed ships survived the journey, some are still travelling there, but a few made it. They entered their designated
star systems and through numerous gravity assists and aerobreaks, finally entered orbit around the target planet.
If the planet was habitable, the human and animal clones that lay dormant for thousands of years would be activated
and began colonising the planet, if the planet was not habitable, bacteria were sent to it to begin terraforming it,
a process that could take hundreds of millions of years. The seed ships were patient.

The newfound colonies started up, and while some failed and died due to natural disasters before they were ready, alien
viruses, hostile enviroments or parts of the seed ship malfunctioning, most survived, and within a few hundred years had
a space-faring civilisation that sometimes colonised multiple planets in the same star system.

While none of these colonies lived at the same time, they did interact. Seed ships sent by seperate colonies to the planets
old colonies had originally settled on and died on discovered the remains of that ancient civilisation. Humans continued in
this way for millions of years colonising dozens of planets, until one of the seed ships discovered something different...

An alien, not human but still an advanced civilisation, had built a seed ship. It was massive, far beyond anything that any
of the human civilisations had ever achieved. It was stuck orbiting around a planet because of damage to the seed ship that
prevented its activation. After some of the first cloned humans on this planet went exploring it, they activated it releasing
the aliens. There has been fierce competition between which of these species would conquer the system and survive.

Kelvin takes place 129 years after this event, when both species after having settled on different planets in the same star
system developed spaceflight around the same time. A war between them has started.
